Multiple Access Links:
this protocol is set to help avoid collisions 
broadcast channel 
    if there's more than one message there will be collisison 

Solution:
    Multiple Access(MAC) Protocols:
        If theres only one user that wants to send data, then the whole channels  rate R can be used.
        If more than one user (M) wants to transmit, then it shares it and the rate becaomse R/M
        It's decentralized
        ⭐️Channel Partitioning:
            If there are 4 computers on one ethernet, and transmission rate is R. Then the whole channel is divided(partitioned) into 4 subchannels.
        ⭐️Random Access:
            Each user M randomly uses the entire bandwidth R.
            If more than one user transmits at the same time there's a collision, and the packets will have to wait
        ⭐️Taking Turns: 
            A server is setup that coordinates network traffic. 

    Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA):
        Time period is divided into separate time slots.
        Each time slot is called a channel. 
        each channel gets a turn. 
    Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA):
        channel spectrum is divided into frequency bands.
        since they're on different frequencies there shouldn't be any collisions. 
    Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA):
        Use different codes to tune your data,
        should have no collision. 

    Random Access MAC Protocol: Always used for local networks 
        can't avoid collisions.
        when collisions happen they can recover:
            Slotted ALOHA
            ALOHA
            CSMA, CSMA/CD, CSMA/CA (CSMA is mostly used for local ethernet networks)
        
        Pure (unslotted) ALOHA:

        CSMA Collisions:
            Whole channel is a broadcast channel shared by everybody
            Lots of collisions, but can still be successful a lot of the time.
        CSMA/CD(collision detection):
            whenever collision happens, the network stops transmitting immediately.
            Uses NIC to determine who will transmit.
            
11/6/18 Linked Layer Communication

MAC Address: 
    Unique ID, set to your machine. (Unique Local Area Address)
    Used to setup a LAN address 
    IEEE regulates MAC Addresses.
    How Can you find the mac address of a computer?
        do an ARP table.
    Each computer has an ARP table
    these are only used in local networks 

ARP(Address Resolution Protocol):
    Arp table contains a table with [MAC Address: IP Address]
    Main purpose of ARP is to convert MAC Address to IP Address 
    ARP Broadcast:
        Destination address is all 1's (FF-FF-FF-FF-FF-FF)
        Only the destination replies with its MAC address.
        When the source recieves the mac address, then it can save this record in its ARP Table 
    
Using ARP to send packets 
    Gets source ip and mac address, and gets the destination ip 
    sends it to the router on its subnet.
    the router converts the mac address and forwards the ip, and converted mac address to the closest matching ip prefix.
        There may be many routers on the path to the destination
    the destination router gets the mac address and ip info, and sends it to the mac address that matches the ip.
    So in the destination, the source mac is set to the router's mac address.
    
DHCP:
    This is how you get your IP Address
    If local DNS server does not contain the destination address, it will run an ARP query
        then the gateway router 

DHCP, RIP, DNS, ARP, TCP... many operations involved to get 
