Packet Loss:
    Reasons:
        Queue(Buffer is full), arrives to queue and there's no room for it and it gets sdropped
        Network is too slow in wireless communication
        Shared broadcast channel(If more than one user sends a packet at the exact same time)
        ⭐️Packet Loss Probability = #Packets Dropped / #Total Packets

Throughput: Speed to dump a file from the source to its destination 
    T-rate = bits/time (Bits transferred between sender/receiver)
    Usually measured in Gbps
    Different links have different transmission speed
    If there's only one link between the source and destination
        if that link has a speed of 1Gbps
        Then the bandwidth is 1Gbps 
        And the throughput is 1Gbps
    ⭐️If there are multiple links between them, the throughput is the minimum/bottleneck link
        (The slowest link)
    
hostA to hostB
Links R1, R2, R3
R1 = 500 kbps
R2 = 2 Mbps
R3 = 1 Mbps
How long from host A to B if file size is 2 Mb?
1) Throughput is 500 kbps, 2 Mb file takes 4 seconds if R1 = 500kbps (Slowest Link)
How long from A to B if R2 = 100 kbps?
2) Throughput is 100 kbps,  2 Mb file takes 20 seconds if R2 = 100 kbps (Slowest Link )

Internet Protocol Layers:
    We have layers so they can have their own functions, and they can all be separated
    If you change something in a layer, it won't effect the other layers around it.
    Internet Protocol Stack(Layers):
        Application - FTP, SMTP, HTTP (Internet things, chat apps, stuff like that)
        Transport - Connection between two processes (Defines the Port Number)
            Ex: Chat client 
                One persons client connects to another persons client and they can chat and send data between each other
        Network: (Defines the IP)
            Host to Host communication (Specifies IP and Port number for application)
            port number specifies the application. IP is the destination.
            After the network encapsulates the information, it's called a Datagram
        Link: Sets your MAC Address into the message, put into a 'Frame'
            Hops to establish communication
        Physical: Sending 0's 1's through the actual routers 
    We have API's for all these different layers.
    Changes to API's in their layer won't effect any of the other layers.
    Local Networks only use MAC addresses for forwarding packets.
    When you got to a router, it checks your IP address because you're entering the network level.
    So Switches are LAN, Routers are WAN
    The Message gets broken up into smaller and smaller pieces, if you send small pieces packet loss isn't as detrimental and they're easy to resend.

Network Security:
    Denial of Service Attack (DoS): Send a lot of requests to a target server, make it too busy so it'll slow down and maybe crash
    ddos: Several hackers attacking the same target with their own farm of machines.
    Prevention: 
        limit requests from specific ip's 
    packet sniffing: Usually in a LAN,
        detects outgoing packets, try to analyze what the packet is and potentially resend it, changing mac address or ips so you can receive the sniffed packets response.
        
