Chapters 1 to 3.

Ch 1 wk1-1
    first page (what's the internet) short answer, calculation, design questions
    what's the internet, protocol, edge, hosts, access net, physical media, network core: packet circuit switching internet structure, security
    network protocol page
    network edge vs network core

ch 1 wk1-2
    wireless access networks (wireless local vs wireless cellular)
    physical media page(wirelesss radio, wired copper/fiber)
    core vs edge network
    Host: packet ransmission delayy equation.
    packet-switching 
    loss and delay page. why is there packet loss and delay?
    Circuit switching - compare circuit and packet switching (summarize in bulletpoints)
    packet vs circuit switch example slide.
    in class practice page for circuit and packet switching ⭐️
        probability for packet loss 
Ch2 wk 2- 1
    queueing delay loss 
    four sources of packet delay ⭐️(Calculation questions [like homework])
    calculating end-to-end delay in class questions 

wk2-2
    throughput ⭐️ 4 slides including in class practice (calculation, if you know throughout how long can you send a file from senderto receiver)
    5 layers of the internet (aplication, transport, network, link, physical)
        know which technologies are part of which layer (FTP part of application, TCP part of transport..)
        transport is between processes, network is between hosts
    Encapsulation example 
    Security
        know how ddos workds (describe)
        packet sniffing
        ip spoofing 
    
wk 3-1
    client-server model and p2p model 
        what are the differences between them
    skip google file system and iot 
    p2p architecture page important
    process communicationg (socket programming)
    what is a socket?⭐️
    main identifiers of a socket?
    UDP Socket interaction ⭐️
    TCP Socket interaction ⭐️
        Draw figures from slides.
    difference between UDP and TCP Sockets

skip all week 3-2

wk 4-1 
    transport service requirements: common apps ⭐️
        what are requirements for differnet apps? Some may not require any data loss or time sensitive response
    comparison between TCP and UDP services ⭐️
        what is the transport layer protocol that can support web service? TCP
        Why? TCP can provide reliable comm and requirement for no data loss.
    Web and HTTP ⭐️ Used for calculation question 
    Non-persistent vs persistent HTTP (Calculation question)
        use in class practice problem 
    what is RTT?
    NO PARLLEL CONNECTIONS 
    in class practice problem focus on non-persistent HTTP without paralle (questions A and C) on the bottom of the page.

wk 5-1
    HTTP request message (will give snapshot of http message, tell things about it. Is it req or res? ) differnet key information.
    method types
    based on response, is it sucessful, bad request, not found?
    What are cookies? Where are they stored? how do they work? What servces do they provide?
        they help http keep state
    Web Caching? What are benefits? how do they work?
        caching example is important 
        know how to calculat average delay. give hit rate, whats the average delay?
        Check example 
    FTP protocol ⭐️
        which port number is FTP on?⭐️
        uses 2 ports: 21 and 20
            why are there 2 porst?
                separate control channel with data communication channel
wk 5-2
    Email protocol⭐️
        what are main components of emails? How do they work?
        Given SencarioL Alice sends message to Bob slide
            What are the main activity in tehse steps?
    DNS⭐️
        what services does DNS provide? Why is centralized DNS not scalable?
        What is the architecture for DNS in the real world.
            Distributed Hierarchical structure
                root level DNS, TOP level DNs, authorative DNS...
        What is local dns?⭐️
        recursive query and iterative query ⭐️
            what are differences and improvements of iterative vs recursive.
            Draw the figures   
    Know DDOS ⭐️
    p2p applications
        know how p2p file distrubutions work (bittorrent) ⭐️
        all bit torrent pages important ⭐️
    skip everything after bit torrent, 
        how does p2p file downloading work?
wk 6-1
    Transport Layers 
        What is transport layer communication  
            logic communication between processes.
        what is multiplexing, demultiple7-1ing⭐️
            how do they work?
            Uses port numbers to differentiate data from different processes.
        Differences between UDP and TCP ⭐️
        UDP
            what kind of appds can UDp support?
            know features of UDP 
            Benefits of UDP ⭐️
                faster, smaller header size, no setup process
        Reliable data connections
            rdt2.0 Finite state machines (Don't have to understand )
            If there are bit errors, how do we recover? Acknowledgment systems(ACK, NAK))
            in rdt 2.0 wat is the new advancement? 
                introduces feedback to recover from bit errors.

wk 6-2
    rdt 3.0 how to recover from packet loss
        adds a timer.
        skip FSM(finite state machine)
wk 7-1
    rdt 3.0 isn't perfect. why?
        it's low efficiency. we send a packet and wait for a reply, so it's slow.
        U = (L/R) / RTT+ L /R
        How do we improtve it?
            pipeline technology. How does it work?
        How does selective repeat work?
        Go-Back⭐️
        All pages up to selective repeat 
        Compare GO-Back and Selective Repeat ⭐️
        How to establish a connection 
            describe 3 way handhsake.
        Hwo to close a connection>
            What is the sequence, steps...
    TCP Overview ⭐️
        (skip segment strcture, but it's important)
        Sequence NUmbers, Acknowledgment numbers.
wk 7-2
    What is flow control? How does it work? first 2 pages.
    Congestion control, what are the reasons for congestion? What are issues that cause them?
    Know TCP Congestion Control Protocols
    Slow Start, Fast Retransmission, Triple Duplicate Acknowledgment
    Differences betwene Reno and Tahoe⭐️
    Summar and in class practice ⭐️
    similar questions to the Graph 

Redo all homework
Redo all inclass practice

After this, check the slides and understand everything. This is to answer short-answers.
