Final Review (Closed book, next tuesday.)
Linked Layer, Networked Layer, Security.

⭐️RIP Example.

Skip chapter 4 after RIP 

Two Routing alg questions. Space, Distance vector
How to assign IP address. 

⭐️Definition of Linked Layer

single bit parity, 2d parity checking 
⭐️ CRC Check, Given generator, data, how many bits are in redunancy. "practice 1 chapter 5 slide
leading bits are based on redunancy.

Multiple Access Control Protocol. 
    Skip TDMA
Pure Aloha
Slotted ALoha 
⭐️CSMA, how does it work? (sense channel, if free, send data.)
    Why can collisions still happen with CSMA?
    This is the reason for CSMA with Collision Detection (CSMA/CD)
⭐️5 stesp for ethernet CSMA/CD ALgorithm
        SKIP EFFICIENCY 
difference between MAC and IP 
12.1 
⭐️ ARP: Why do wee ned it? How does it work?
⭐️Addressing Routing to another LAN Exampel
    Change source and destination MAC address. Why do we need to chang ethe MAC address, and how?

skip ethernet.

A day in the life.. connecting to the internet EXAMPLE.

12.2 
How does the ethernet switch work? FOrwarding table... how to construct the table? Self learning Protocol
⭐️Difference between switch and router 
⭐️VLAN. What are benefits of vlan? 
⭐️Vlan Trunk tunnel 

Ch 8 - Security 
skip to Cryptography slide.
⭐️Difference between private key and symmetric key.
⭐️Symmetric Key page
How do the public and private keys work? 
⭐️RSA Algorithm 5 steps. One calculation question
    Given tags, and range of n, p , q. do the encryption.
    don't have to know why it works.

⭐️In Class Practice, pg 2 of second ch 8 slide.
    instead of d, it will be something else.

How to certify users. Why do we need auth?
⭐️How can we get digital signatures? First we use Hash to convert the message into a fix sizded hash value, then use the private key to encrypt the hash value to get the digital signature.

⭐️How to secure e-mail. Given the figure , how does Alice encrypt the data? 4 steps to encrypt data.
Given this encryption, how can bob decrypt the data? Lower half answer.
    Use false public keys, combined with other things to send over the internet.
    When bob receives the message, he uses his own key to get the symentric key, then he can decrypt all of alice's message. 
    He can verify the message is from her by using the hash function to decrypt the message, and using alice's public key to decrpyt her part.



