CHAPTER 11 

Trunks -
    Switch portscan be a "trunk port"
    Trunk ports allow the switch to carry traffic from multiple VLANs on one trunk.
    Creating a trunk requires 2 or more vlans 

"Router on a stick" - All the traffic goes through one Link(Cable)
    It's also a trunk, so all VLANS go through the switch on one cable.
    This requires a sub-interface on the router, so the router can route to the 3 VLANs
    Interfaces are assigned as 0/0.<Integer> IE:  0/0.1, 0/0.2, 0/0.3  Through GigE 0/0 
        Each interface has its own IP Address.
    Uses 802.1Q Encapsulation to register addresses.

With IVR(Inter-VLAN-Routing), Routing functions are built into the 3560(Multilayer SwitcH: Can perform ethernet frame switching, and routing of packets)
    This switch is in the switch category in cisco packet tracer.
    Can do routing based on the layer 3 header.
    Multilayer Switch - Router + Switch 

Creating VLANs:
    type: "vlan <Integer>" //Integer is the number of which vlan it is.
    "sh vlan" - Prints all VLANs and corresponding Names, which ports they occupy
    "sh interfaces trunk" displays VLANs on trunk.
    Trunk Ports have a "native" VLAN 
    Traffic on the native VLAN don't need IDs.
    If the switch sees a non-tagged ethernet frame going on the trunk, the switch assumes the frame is associated with the native VLAN 

"sh interfaces <Switchport> switchport" 
"sh interfaces FastEthernet0/15 switchport" 
    This displays information about the port and its VLAN. 

Assigning Access Ports :
    Assign vlan 3 to a specific port..?

Configure multilayer switch to configure layer 2 ethernet switching of frames, and layer 3 switch of IP Packets 

vlan 10 is 1 pc, vlan20 is another. Across two VLANs connected by a virtual router.

># ip routing 
    int vlan 10
    ip address 192.168.10.1 255.255.255.0
    int vlan 20 
    ip address 192.168.20.1 255.255.255.0 

    These IP Addresses will be tied to the Virtual Interface that the Multilayer Switch is creating.
    *SVI Interfaces (Switch Virtual Interfaces)

CHAPTER 12 - SECURITY
ACL - Access Control List
To implement security measures, we use access lists.
Access Lists:  
    Usually used to filter traffic as it comes in or exits a router.
    On Cisco routersthere are 3 types of lists:
        1 - Standard Access Lists 
            On this, the most simple, you can permit or deny traffic from going in or out of a router interface
            This is based on the source IP of the packet, or based on the subnet that the source IP belongs to
        2 - Extended Access Lists
            More Flexible than SAL. More power as well in creating more granular filtering.
            Can filter traffic based on SourceIP, Destination IP, Protocol Type(TCP vs UDP, ICMP), TCP/UDP Port Numbers
        3 - Named Access Lists 
            More or less the same as the above two, but instead of associating with an access list number, they have more menaingful names
            Named Access Lists are better for documentation and understanding particular access lists.

When you create access lists, you have to know the difference between Inbound/Outbound Access Lists.
Traffic can be coming in one interface of the Router, and be filtered with an "Inbound (I/B) Access List"
If you want to filter as traffic is leaving, you create an O/B ("Outbound" ALC - Access Control List)
Direction:
    Whenever traffic hits a router interface, it checks to see if they're on the right interface, if there's any ACL
    Assuming you have an IP packet that's tied to something on the RHS of the router, the Router will filter it with the I/B ACL, THen the packet will be routed to another interface on the network.
    Before it leave sthe router, the router will check the O/B ACL to see if it has permission.
        On any router interface/sub-interface, you can create an ACL and apply it to I/B or O/B Traffic.
    Cannot have more than 1 I/B Access List associated w/ the same interface.
    
    If you block traffic in one direction, it blocks both directions.

    Standard Access List Deny Example:
        Lab A 
                # config t
        (config)# access-list 10 deny <src IP> <wildcard-mask> //deny any traffic with src IP starting with IP... Then wildcard mask is inverse of subnet mask.
        //any wildcard bits with 1, don't care which bits are in the subnet.
        //with the wildcard mask, any location you see a 0, you care about the value in the subnet.
        
        (config)# access-list 10 deny 172.16.40.0 0.0.0.255  //block ip packets where src ip address starts with 172.16.40.0 0.0.0.255
        (config)# access-list 10 permit any // allows everything else, as long as its not in the denied subnet
            If there was no permit any statement, it defaults to deny everything.(Implicit deny)
            The 10 means it's a standard list. Less than 100 is a standard list.

        Because it's a standard list, it's only filtered based on the source network
        Go Over example 3.

    Extended Access List (Figure 12.5):
        To Block FTP traffic, you have to deny tcp
        router(config)# access-list 110 deny tcp any host 172.16.50.5 eq 21    //eq 21 is the tcp port number, FTP uses 21.
        To Blcok Telnet traffic, deny tcp port. 
        router(config)# access-list 110 deny tcp any host 172.16.50.5 eq 21    //eq 23 is the tcp port number, Telnet uses 23.
        //110 = Extended IP ACL.
    incoming ports from client ips are ephemeral. So you can't block well known port sources.

Spanning Tree Protocol (STP):
    disables redundant links in a network of switches 
    prevents infinite loops and broadcast storms.
    Links are disabled in software.
    
    Root Bridge
    The Lowest Bridge ID# becomes the root bridge 
    Bridge ID = Bridge Priority# + MAC Address

    The Priority # by default is 32768
    Find the lowest Bridge ID by looking at the mac address. Lowest mac address will be the root bridge if the priority numbers are default 

    Find Root Ports 
    Remaining switches that aren't the root bridge, have to figure out which port is the root port 
    Root port is the lowest cost to the root bridge.

    Find Designated Ports 
        For every link in the network, one side of the link has to be a designated port.
        It's the port that advertises lowest cost back to root bridge 
        Go through all the links and figure out, as the BPDU packet circulates throughout the netowrk in counter clockwise direction 
        there's a field in the BPDU packet that contains the cost, and it's initially 0, and goes up as it traverses the network.
        Switches change the value of hte BPDU cost field, it increases every forward.
        BPDU packet with lowest cost is the optimal path.
        So whichever switch advertises the lowest cost becomes the designated port.
    


